SUPPORT SYSTEM FOR ENTREPRENEURSHIP DEVELOPMENT

                       
Entrepreneurship and the need of strong support system
Entrepreneurs need strong support and advisory system in order to turn their startup ideas into valuable businesses. Supporting entrepreneurship is essential for the development and improvement of our lives. Modern-world society needs innovations and effective solutions for existing problems. The bright and ambitious minds of entrepreneurs are to turn their break-through ideas into successful companies with purpose, driven by their vision. By supporting entrepreneurs, we support innovation.
The law makers
The decision makers and law makers in the countries must work towards improving the business environments for developing one strong entrepreneurial ecosystem. By making specific decisions like tax alleviations for small businesses and entrepreneurs, any government can increase the strength of the entrepreneurial system in the country.
The educators
Changes among educators, teachers and trainers must be made in order to stimulate the leadership skills and natural talents of their students. Entrepreneurship can be instigated by implementing the right methods and approaches. Not only entrepreneurs must be educated, the community as well has to be educated about the importance of entrepreneurship, because the world needs innovation.
Entrepreneur communities
Entrepreneurs by themselves need to understand the importance of support, connections and networking. Mentoring and leadership, spreading the knowledge and ideas can be just the first step which entrepreneurs can take in order to help the entrepreneurial communities word wide to flourish.
Friends and family
Choosing an entrepreneurial path is a very risky life choice which can lead to many life setbacks. But the entrepreneurial spirit and innovative vision of entrepreneurs are the leading powers supporting this very important decision. Being an entrepreneur has its challenges and giving up the stable job and regular paycheck is one of these challenges.
Even that many of the first-time entrepreneurs are aware of the risks and are ready to face any obstacles, there is one key factor which can affect the course of this important decision. The support of family and friends is very important for entrepreneurs and startup owners. They are already sacrificing a lot of their personal time which can affect their relationships with the others. How can entrepreneurs handle unsupportive friends and family is one very difficult yet important question to be answered.
Don't argue - explain
Avoid arguing and getting into limitless conversations where you should explain every step you take. It is tough but this is your life and you should live it the way you really want. Explain your idea well to your family and friends. Make them believe in it.  Explain to them that this is what you really want and that you believe in it. Learn to stand up for your goals and to achieve them because this is what you are supposed to do.
Don't give up
When entrepreneurs face ultimatums from their closest people, this can damage the growth of their business. Don't give up just because your family and friends want you to do something else. They are probably worried what will happen if you will fail. Keep working hard, because the real thing that pays back is hard work, not self doubt.
Stay confident
Believe in your ability to turn your idea into successful business and sooner or later you will succeed. Of course, it would be better if you had the strong support of your family and friends, but you need to keep believing in yourself to make the rest of the world to believe in you too. Stay true to your vision and find the support you need in your confidence.

